If a Pod is in a Running state it does not necessarily mean the Pod is ready to use or that the Pod is operating as you would expect. For example, a running Pod may not be ready to accept requests or may have entered into an internal failed state, such as a deadlock, preventing it to make progress on new requests. Kubernetes introduces probes for containers to detect when Pods are in such states. More specifically:

Readiness probes are used to detect when a Pod is unable to serve traffic, such as during startup when large amounts of data are being loaded or caches are being warmed. When a readiness probe fails, it means that the Pod needs more time to become ready to serve traffic. When the Pod is accessed through a Kubernetes Service, the Service will not serve traffic to any Pods that have a failing readiness probe. 

Liveness probes are used to detect when a Pod fails to make progress after entering a broken state, such as deadlock. The issues causing the Pod to enter such a broken state are bugs, but by detecting a Pod is in a broken state allows Kubernetes to restart the Pod and allow progress to be made, perhaps only temporarily until arriving at the broken state again. The application availability is improved compared to leaving the Pod in the broken state.

Startup probes are used when an application starts slowly and may otherwise be killed due to failed liveness probes. The startup probe runs before both readiness and liveness probes. The startup probe can be configured with a startup time that is longer than the time needed to detect a broken state for a container after it has started.

Readiness and Liveness probes run for the entire lifetime of the container they are declared in. Startup probes only run until they first succeed. A container can define up to one of each type of probe. All probes are also configured the same way. The only difference is how a probe failure is interpreted
